# Project Image recommendation 
Retail Analytics space is evolving everyday towards providing a better customer experience every day. Image based product search is one such area of work. Similarly, this project explores the idea in the online eye frames product space. The project is about comparison of image features and selecting the top 10 similar images to a given eye frame image.
# Usage
For this recognition system, a cosmetic product database has been processed that contains image samples of forty different cosmetic items. The purpose of this recognition system is to recognize Cosmetic products with their types, brands and retailers such that to analyze a customer experience what kind of products and brands they need. This system has various applications in such as brand recognition, product recognition and also the availability of the products to the vendors. The implementation of the proposed system is divided into three components: preprocessing, feature extraction and classification. During preprocessing the color images were scaled and transformed into gray-scaled images to speed up the process. During feature extraction, several different feature representation schemes: transformed, structural and statistical texture analysis approaches have been employed and investigated by employing the global and local feature representation schemes.
“visual product search” is what comes to the rescue. Instead of describing, we could just take a picture of the product and search for it. This work is about developing a model which would find most similar images to a particular product image. An article on mycustomer.com explains how Google has revolutionized the way we search. Consumers now demand image-based search functionalities when shopping online (not just text-based search). People would like their online shopping experience to be more visual, image-based and intuitive. Potential customers are window shopping “by image” on search engines like Google. Retailers whose search engine optimize their product images and listings can gain a competitive advantage with consumers who prefer to shop this way.
